README.md, before:

#Tidoop
Tidoop is the code name for all the developments about [Hadoop](LINK_REQUIRED) made by [FIWARE](LINK_REQUIRED) team at [Telefónica Investigación y Desarrollo](LINK_REQUIRED) (Telefónica Research and Development, in english), or <i>TID</i> in its abreviated form.

Tidoop comprises several different projects:

* API extensions for Hadoop, under [tidoop-api-ext](tidoop-hadoop-ext/) folder.
* MapReduce job library, under [tidoop-mr-lib](tidoop-mr-lib/) folder.
* REST API for the above MapReduce job library, under [tidoop-mr-lib-api](tidoop-mr-lib-api) folder.

##Reporting issues and contact information
There are several channels suited for reporting issues and asking for doubts in general. Each one depends on the nature of the question:

* Use [stackoverflow.com](http://stackoverflow.com) for specific questions about the software. Typically, these will be related to installation problems, errors and bugs. Development questions when forking the code are welcome as well. Use the `fiware-tidoop` tag.
* Use [fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org](mailto:fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org) for general questions about the software. Typically, these will be related to the conceptual usage of the component, e.g. wether it suites for your project or not. It is worth to mention the issues reported to [fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org](mailto:fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org) are tracked under [http://jira.fiware.org](http://jira.fiware.org); use this Jira to see the status of the issue, who has been assigneed to, the exchanged emails, etc, nevertheless the answers will be sent to you via email too.
* Personal email:
    * [francisco.romerobueno@telefonica.com](mailto:francisco.romerobueno@telefonica.com) **[Main contributor]**
    * [fermin.galanmarquez@telefonica.com](fermin.galanmarquez@telefonica.com) **[Main contributor]**
    * [german.torodelvalle@telefonica.com](german.torodelvalle@telefonica.com) **[Contributor]**

**NOTE**: Please try to avoid personaly emailing the contributors unless they ask for it. In fact, if you send a private email you will probably receive an automatic response enforcing you to use [stackoverflow.com](stackoverflow.com) or [fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org](mailto:fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org). This is because using the mentioned methods will create a public database of knowledge that can be useful for future users; private email is just private and cannot be shared.

Commit message:

ADD references to FIWARE and Cosmos in the README

README.md, after:

#Tidoop
This project is part of [FIWARE](http://fiware.org), being part of the [Cosmos](http://catalogue.fiware.org/enablers/bigdata-analysis-cosmos) Ecosystem.

Tidoop is the code name for all the developments about [Hadoop](LINK_REQUIRED) made by [FIWARE](LINK_REQUIRED) team at [Telefónica Investigación y Desarrollo](LINK_REQUIRED) (Telefónica Research and Development, in english), or <i>TID</i> in its abreviated form.

Tidoop comprises several different projects:

* API extensions for Hadoop, under [tidoop-api-ext](tidoop-hadoop-ext/) folder.
* MapReduce job library, under [tidoop-mr-lib](tidoop-mr-lib/) folder.
* REST API for the above MapReduce job library, under [tidoop-mr-lib-api](tidoop-mr-lib-api) folder.

##Reporting issues and contact information
There are several channels suited for reporting issues and asking for doubts in general. Each one depends on the nature of the question:

* Use [stackoverflow.com](http://stackoverflow.com) for specific questions about the software. Typically, these will be related to installation problems, errors and bugs. Development questions when forking the code are welcome as well. Use the `fiware-tidoop` tag.
* Use [fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org](mailto:fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org) for general questions about the software. Typically, these will be related to the conceptual usage of the component, e.g. wether it suites for your project or not. It is worth to mention the issues reported to [fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org](mailto:fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org) are tracked under [http://jira.fiware.org](http://jira.fiware.org); use this Jira to see the status of the issue, who has been assigneed to, the exchanged emails, etc, nevertheless the answers will be sent to you via email too.
* Personal email:
    * [francisco.romerobueno@telefonica.com](mailto:francisco.romerobueno@telefonica.com) **[Main contributor]**
    * [fermin.galanmarquez@telefonica.com](fermin.galanmarquez@telefonica.com) **[Main contributor]**
    * [german.torodelvalle@telefonica.com](german.torodelvalle@telefonica.com) **[Contributor]**

**NOTE**: Please try to avoid personaly emailing the contributors unless they ask for it. In fact, if you send a private email you will probably receive an automatic response enforcing you to use [stackoverflow.com](stackoverflow.com) or [fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org](mailto:fiware-tech-help@lists.fi-ware.org). This is because using the mentioned methods will create a public database of knowledge that can be useful for future users; private email is just private and cannot be shared.
